Range values of primitive datatypes in
Java. in the table we can see the range
of values of the primitives types, as
well as the size in bytes that each
primitive types occupies. These ranges
are important to determine the maximum
or minimum size that a certain type can
store. Strings in Java. In Java String
handling is an object type, but it has
several characteristics in particular
although we do not yet detail the
handling of objects, but it should be
mentioned that in Java is necessary to
use the new operator to create a new
object, however when we talk about the
strings this is not necessary. We can
simply declare a String type and assign
a string value directly to this variable
which is why it seems that the string
type is a primitive type but is not
however due to the frequent use of this
type at the time of programming is that
it was decided to simplify the process
of creating and assigning values to this
type String in particular, for example
String greeting equals "Hello World" we
can see that to declare a string in Java
you only need to use the String type
later define its name identifier and
finally assign a value without the need
to use the new operator
thus we can directly assign the value of
a string simply using double quotes to
wrap the desire value. In Java unlike
other languages overloading of operators
is not allow which means that we cannot
alter the function of operators to do
what we want, however there is an
exception to this rule when we handle a
string types when we use the plus
operator in a string type is detected in
the operation, we say that we have the
"string context" and therefore instead of
adding values what Java does is
concatenate the values that are in the
operation. We'll see this later in an
excercise
but it's important to note this point
since it's another important
simplification when using strings in
Java.
One of the most important details that
we will study later is the way in which
objects are compared in Java however in
this section we will only clarify that
when using objects the ==
symbol is not used as the primitive
types, but the equals method. In the case
of strings this will allow us to compare
the content of the String. In the topic
of objects we will study this in more
detail, but for now it's important to
know this detail, so you now have to
compare strings. In the table shown we
can observe the escape characters that
are used when displaying messages in the
standard output. These characters will be
put into practice in the exercise that
we are going to do next